And he lectured to us in rather large groups. He did
a fantastic job. I never would have made it through
chemistry without his help, without special
help, and probably the special help from the Lord,
because it was not a subject that I was
particularly interested in. But I was very
interested in English and Bloody Morgan was a
noted character there on campus. He had a great
sense of humor and everyone referred to him as
Bloody Morgan because he was tough and a great
teacher. He got your attention and kept your
attention. Another one that I was very fond of was
E.K. Spahr. S-P-A-H-R. He was, to me, one of the
great professors of England. What did he teach? He
taught English. English. Another
was an ag-economic professor. Oh, I should never
forget his name. Dan Russell? Dan Russell, I want
to speak about him a little separately, but Dan was
not one, this was the head of the department, a big
fella,
later helped me get the job with Anderson Clayton,
head of the department, which sets my mind right
now. You mentioned Dan Russell, Dan was loved by
everyone and his, the work he did for the poor
element of our students who came there wanting an
education and just took a chance and came to A&M.
They were told to look up Dan Russell and Dan had a
home for boys down there right off campus and all
the boys they got a few cows donated and they milked
the cows and they turned the butter and they grew
the gardens and they lived in that house and they
were a fraternity all of them. And Dan Russell, we
all need to venerate him for the good work he did in
those early days, a man that we all love. Let's see,
other good teachers, math. In math,
That
slips my mind. History?
I reflect on Penberthy. Yes, please describe Mr.
Penberthy. Mr. Penberthy was one of the most
remarkable men that I had ever met and known. Penny
knew more A&M students than anyone on the campus.
He had a fantastic, retentive memory, and he could
remember every student's first name, frankly.
But he was
one that anyone could go to and get good advice. He
ran a very fine intramural program that was so
vital back in those days with no girls, no
entertainment, no TV, nothing, and the need for
physical activity. We had softball, we had
soccer, we had a little bit of everything,
swimming, fencing, tumbling, And I got
interested in tumbling because early on I had
learned to walk on my hands and anyone who could
walk on their hands and do a handstand and a few
things like that just followed into the tumbling
team. So we built a tumbling team there that for a
number of years performed at every basketball
game during the half. To this day, people told me,
so they went to the basketball game to see the
Tumlin team when they did just as much emotional
when they did the basketball game. And Penny
arranged for a trip every year for our Tumlin team
to Texas, to the women's college at Denton. And the
women's college up there looked forward to that
and we went up there and spent the weekend and put on
one or two exhibitions for them. And we
entertained Roy and all that dates and stuff. And
describe the social parts of those trips. Did you
meet some attractive young ladies? Oh, yeah. Oh,
we met some attractive young ladies. And of
course, all of us back in those days at high school,
we went to Austin as frequently as we could afford,
which wasn't very often. It was still long
distance when I was at college. And we... Our
girlfriends on the football weekends came in on
the train from Austin and went up to the junction.
Into the junction and had to wait for the train
coming from Dallas, and they would tie on to that
train at Palo Alto Junction. I remember one time my
date, Mary Johnson, who was the daughter of a
farmer in San Antonio, She was in Catholic
University and I invited her and she was coming
over with a group. And when the train came in from
Dallas, the train from Milano Junction from
Austin was not on it. Uh-oh. And so, my gosh, we had
no, we knew, we learned that Milano Junction, the
train from Austin was late and they couldn't wait
for it. So it was sitting at the junction up there,
what was that, about 70 miles, 60 miles. I went to, I
dashed down to Casey's. I said, Mr. Casey, I never
ever asked you for a favor, although I had, I'd
borrowed a few and five dollars from him here and
there, you know, and always paid him back. I said,
could I possibly borrow your car? I've got a girl, a
whole bunch of girls up there. My line over judge
told him what happened. He threw me the keys. It was
a Buick. Unfortunately, I think I almost burned it
up on the highway going up there. It picked up all
those girls and as many as I could pack on that
automobile, I think some of them were hanging on.
We got them back. Let's see, we were talking about
advisors and other important people at A&M. Were
there some characters on the faculty and the staff
then? Well,
yes. You know, one man that I noticed in the
military building there, what is it, the new Corps
building? Yes, sir. There's a picture of all the
military heads.
Converse S. Lewis, his picture's not there.
There's no notice of the fact that he was a PMSNT.
And he was a very fine one. Regular Army officer and
a great man. But he was a stickler. for certain
things, and tough as a boot. I remember him well.
Now, he was commandant? He was commandant. No, no,
he was not commandant. He was a PMS&T. Oh, PMS&T.
Yeah. And like in old days, that might have been the
same thing. But the greatest commandant we ever
had was Andy Anderson. Describe him, please, sir.
Andy Anderson and his sweet red-headed wife two of
the most loved people that ever taught on the
faculty at Texas A&M University. Frank Anderson
was a track coach, as we all know, and did a fabulous
job in the track world, keeping us on the top shelf
in that area at all times because he was a man of such
work discipline such character and such love and
whatever he did. But for about two years, he was
asked to be common on the cadets. That would be when
we were, I was a junior and senior then him. So he had
both duties for those two years? Had what? Did he
have both duties, track and? No, I think he gave up
track at that time. He had, this was a full-time
job. There were several areas where we conflicted
as students with Frank. And there was an uproar,
too, about it, but Frank always kept his cool, and
what he was trying to do was right. The students
were out of line. But he weathered the storm and
handled it beautifully. And I have a letter from
him in here somewhere. I'll show you. As you look
back, what were the key courses that you took that
were important in your later years? Well, I was
always interested in cotton, having been born in
Georgia and picked it over there and picked it
here, and then worked for Cotton General and
working for Cotton Seed Oil Man in the summertime,
for Cotton Freight Broker and for Cotton
Compress, going to Europe and studying it. But it
was something that I always wanted to enter into
and do as a life work, I thought. And so I took every
cotton course that A&M had. And because of my
background, I did excel and I won the Cotton
Fellowship to Europe. I was so, which was such a
great thing. because it was a challenge. And
Bailey Conant from San Antonio and I, and a man
named Hapton, there were three of us, one, two,
three. I was one, Bailey was second, and Hapton was
third in the selection process. And Luther Jones
was a leader, selected leader, although this was
under John Mogford's agronomies department at
the time. And John was a lead son out of those groups
to Europe for the winners of the Cotton
Fellowship, but it was financed by the Cotton
Ball, and the Cotton Ball was one of the big social
occasions on the campus back in those days. We
always had a named band. Describe the Cotton Ball.
It was a social event, one of the big social events
of the year, if not the social event of the year
because we all had I had one from Corpus Christi.
And they'd come up every two years, my junior and
senior year. And Margaret Yarborough was my date,
I remember. And, but others came from all cities of
the state. And it was, as I say, we had a first-class
named band. for those events, and it was one of the
big weekends of the year. And through it, we raised
money for this cotton trip to Europe, plus the fact
that Anderson Clayton made up the shortfall.
Anderson Clayton Cotton Company being the
largest cotton firm in the world at the time, with
headquarters in Houston, very interested in
everything cotton-wise at A&M, supported it. And
Will Clayton and his firm were very supportive. In
fact, when we went on that trip to Europe, we were,
we sailed out of Boston and we had a great trip over.
We went to England, we went to France, we went to
Belgium, we went to Holland, we went to Germany, we
went to Switzerland, and all those places, in
addition to New York, we studied the marketing of
cotton. And it was a fantastic trip and
opportunity. And I was blessed to enjoy and made a
lot of difference in my life. I went to work for
Anderson Clayton when I came out of school. I
didn't stay in it, but of course the war, World War
II came along and took me out. And I never did go back
with them, although I had an opportunity when the
war was over to go back with them. And they wanted me
back. but that's another story. Were there other,
we're talking about important courses, other
courses that now that you look back on that had an
important effect on your future?
Well, the head of the Ag Economics Department, I
couldn't think of his name a minute ago, was Dr.
Barker. Barker, B-A-R-K-E-R.
He was an unusual entrepreneur in his field in that
he had contacts with business people all over.
Highly respected in his field. He helped many,
many a young man. He helped me in many ways. Took an
interest in me. He taught a class and did a great
job. Where did the faculty and staff members live
in those days? Where did they live? Yes, sir. Where
were their residences? You know, they lived in
homes adjacent to the campus, mainly, if I recall.
I recall visiting with the Andersons. They lived
over there. on the south part of the campus there.
Of course, our president, T.O. Walton, lived
right on the campus. I sat on the swing of his front
porch and visited with him as a senior and a junior
because he leaned on us, the leaders of the Corps,
and we had a very special relationship. His son was
a member of our class, T.O. Describe President
Walton.
President Walton was a large man. I have a picture
of him I can show you here taken with President
Roosevelt when the President visited the campus.
They were riding around the campus together and he
was showing a very good picture of him. But T.O. was
a very quiet man and I say T.O. Dr. Walton. but a very
astute individual, and he had close contacts with
F.M. Law, who at that time, if I recall, was either
president of the Association of Former Students,
or he later was on the board of, they didn't call it
regents then, they called it- Board of Directors.
Huh? Board of Directors. Yeah, the Board of
Directors of the Governor's, and others, but He
was a good president. He was, you know, he was a
quiet man. Let's see, you mentioned President,
did President Roosevelt come to the campus while
you were there? Yes. Describe that visit if you
remember it. Well, it was a great event. We never
had seen a president before and he spoke at Guyon
Hall or maybe it was an open meeting. I can't
remember, but I do recall It was a very significant
occasion. Were you all at all aware that Mr.
Roosevelt was physically handicapped? Oh, yes,
yes, definitely. He had a cane, but he was able to
get around, and at that time, I don't believe he was
in a wheelchair. Were there some other famous
campus visitors you remember during your
undergraduate days? Well, we had... Yes, we
had...
I remember a movie star, Fred McMurray, came and
visited the campus and I had the pleasure of being
sort of a host for him and he was quite a character
and
talked to the group and very interesting. I
remember that.
I
already of course became governor at the time that
we were our junior, our senior year and I was a
member of the Ross Volunteers and we went over to
take part in the government inauguration and hold
the sabers for him and his wife to walk through and I
have a good picture of that. You mentioned the
Cottonball Band. What famous bands or music
musicians came to the campus during those years?
Well, we had a man I mentioned earlier, Bailey
Conahan, who won the Cotton to a fellowship with
me, was from San Antonio. And he was quite a,
thought of an entrepreneur himself in the sense
that he He stayed in touch with these bands and he
had a way about him to get their attention and would
dickle with them and get them there. We had all the,
some of the top bands of the country back in those
days and I swear at my age, my memory sometimes sort
of, but name a few of them I'll tell you. Guy
Lombardo, the Dorseys, Kay Kaiser. Yeah, that's
right. I think we had them all at different times
because he, for his junior and senior year, we had
several balls and we had that type of top
entertainment. And what did you young men wear and
your dates wear to these dances? Well, the dates,
you know, wore their fences, dresses and we wore
our uniforms proudly. How was a young woman
treated at A&M in those days at a dance? Like a jewel
encased. Do you think they enjoyed coming to
those? Oh yes, they looked forward to it so very
much and all of them, whether they were duchesses
of the cotton ball or of any significant one of
these balls because one of the reasons they were so
successful is that we did not have women on the
campus and we needed that type of activity so that
we could bring the girls in to the campus for
significant occasions and give us a break. And we
would, we had them several times a year. Where did
they stay when they were in town? We had the inn of
the The Aggieland Inn. The Aggieland Inn, and we
put them in there. We put away the whole thing for
them. That and the others would stay with various
faculty members and families around the campus
who would volunteer their homes. The YMCA played
an important role. What all occurred at the Y or
sponsored by the Y? The YMCA has been a great I've
been a booster of the YMCA ever since I was a kid in
Athens, Georgia. I know the good that it does and it
did a great deal of good at A&M. Few people know that
on the second floor of the YMCA they had a loan
facility where they made loans to students. About
five dollars to five hundred dollars or even three
or four thousand dollars and they found the money
somehow through various sources. That was before
the college took over that operation pretty well
as I remember this. I may be mistaken but I do know
that that's why they had that. We had at that time we
had no church on the campus. We, the YMCA, I'm just
trying to think of the name of the, I can see him very
plainly, the director of the Y at that time.
Cashin? Cashin, after Cashin. Oh, this is after
Red Cashin's dead? Well, I remember Cashin. I
remember Cashin. Cashin, when he had an
assistant, he was very active, tall, old glasses,
I can't remember his name. But they were, active in
many ways and we, the YMCA was a focal point for
meetings and of course on the steps of the Y we had
our Yale practice right opposite Hart Hall, a law
hall there, every, Hart Hall, you know, every
weekend. Was it called Midnight Yale Practice in
those days? Yes. And who went to midnight Yale
practice? I recall they got the freshmen out, the
sophomores, and most everyone who could attend
was there. There would be quite a crowd around.
Let's see, Guyon Hall. What happened at Guyon
Hall? Well, Guyon Hall, of course, was the one and
only place we had on the campus back in the old days
for graduation ceremonies or for any.
gathering of that body.
So we're talking about Guy and Hall and what all
went on there. Let's start with the high point. Was
commencement, your commencement there? My
commencement was there. Please describe your
commencement. Well, my commencement was like any
other commencement.
My family, of course, couldn't even come up. It was
a hardship for them to even be there, but they were
extremely proud. But I think,
I remember we had a general present those awards to
us, if I'm not mistaken, our graduation awards.
Not a general, can't remember his name, but quite a
prominent character. Now this was May of 1937.
But any time they had any sort of presentation like
the former students to the faculty winners of the
awards, faculty awards, the mothers clubs used it
for their meetings. The only thing is it was just
too small. It came too small for us. Were there any
religious activities held in Guyon Hall? Yes,
there were. There were church services held there
for a long time, and that brought on the chapel that
we dedicated during my administration as
president of former students. I'm very proud of
that. We had a beautiful chapel there, and I wonder
today if it's being used effectively. I
understand it's being used for marriages, and
many many services. I believe it is. Let's talk
about the religious background of the students.
In general, the student body was Protestant,
Catholic, what? Yes, Protestant, Catholic, and
many of the boys I know went to church on a regular
basis.
Many of them took that Sunday morning to relax and
get sort of caught up and write letters and go to
Austin, Houston. Were there any Jewish students
then? Jewish? Jewish at A&M? Oh, yes. How were they
treated? No one, as far as I'm concerned, there was
ever any. whether it was, there wasn't any niggers
on our campus, but had they been there, they'd have
been treated like anybody else. Hispanics, one of
my closest friends, Eduardo Longoria, he was, of
course, from Laredo, and one of the great families
in Mexico, but any Hispanic there was, we didn't
have any racial difficulties. Were there any
international students? I don't know of any, but
I'm sure there were a few. But they were usually
students who were there working with a doctorate.
They were not in the Corps of Cadets. Let's see,
let's jump back to commencement. What did you wear
to, when you graduated, what did you wear to
commencement ceremony? How many uniforms do I
remember? And every graduate attended? Oh, yeah.
Let's see. The big student groups. If you or I in
that era could have held any student office on
campus, what would have been the prize honor as an
A&M student in that? For me to be the regimental
commander of the cavalry, which I was, That was my
number one goal and I achieved that. And the other
would be to be in the top
10 of the graduation class and be possibly
valedictorian, but I really had never had any
dream that I could be there, but I made it in the top
10 and we selected, the top 10 selected the
valedictorian, who was Jimmy Powell, who was my
captain and they trooped Calvary when I was
regimental commander of the Calvary. Power,
P-O-W-E-R? Power, James A. Power, Bartlett,
Texas. Now, these, back again about the students,
by and large, were these students from any
particular section of Texas, or was pretty well
the whole state of Texas covered by the student
body? Oh, the whole state of Texas, everywhere
from El Paso to, you know, In Shreveport, we had
some out-of-state students, not many, but Jack
Creighton was in Shreveport, I recall. But all
parts of the state, that's one of the great things
about A&M in that sense that, you know, it took us
out of the,
you know, just your home jurisdiction area and a
statewide school interested in the world. And
they were country and city, from the country and
from the city. All walks of life. Some poor and some
well-to-do. Absolutely.
The thing about
my class of 37, as I see it, it's been a very
successful group. We've had men who I say vice
president of Shell Oil Company, Jim Wilson. Jack
Creighton and Andy Grew, they're two of the
greatest geologists in the world today.
Frank Poole, well, he's just a good friend. He was
the last to ask me, but he built the world's largest
oil servicing company. But our people, however
you look at them, they were leaders. to become our
commander of the corps, head lead, president of
the four-eyes shovel, gravel company. Bill
Kelly.